# Wednesday, January 5, 2022

## Migration to .Net 6.0

The one blocker we have is that .Net 6.0 is not installed Ubuntu based Microsoft-hosted agents in Azure DevOps.
See this GitHub issue discussion: [https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/issues/4424]()

The workaround is to add a task in the YAM: pipeline to install the desired .Net SDK version:

```
- task: UseDotNet@2
  inputs:
    packageType: 'sdk'
    version: '6.0.x'
```

I thought the SDK installation would lengthen the build time significantly but it adds only 7 seconds to the build.

The overall build time seems to have decreased dramatically (at least 50% decrease)

---

Breaking change: Default console logger format set to JSON when running in Docker container using the `aspnet` image.
[https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/issues/3274]()

This change only affects applications running in a Docker container, for instance when running in Kubernetes. I don't think this is a big deal for us and we should embrace the new default. 

---
Migration guide from .NET 3.1 to 6.0

[https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/migration/31-to-60?view=aspnetcore-6.0&tabs=visual-studio]()


Command to clear Nuget package cache:
```sh
$ dotnet nuget locals --clear all
```

---
Now I'm having a build error due to the migration of `ServiceCollection` from `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` to the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Abstrations` Nuget package. See: [https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/52284]()

The same issue is reported here: [https://github.com/grpc/grpc-dotnet/issues/1481]()
The workaround is to add an explicit Package Reference to `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` v6.0.0 in the .csproj.
```xml
  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection" Version="6.0.0" />
  </ItemGroup>
```
---
Possible code improvements:
  - File-scoped namespace declaration to reduce indentation: `namespace MyNamespace;`
  - Use record types with init-only properties where possible (Models)
  - Pattern matching enhancements
  - Minimal hosting/Minimal Apis

--- 
Some date and time improvements were introduced in .Net 6.0: [https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/date-time-and-time-zone-enhancements-in-net-6/]()

One of the most interesting improvement is the automatic conversion between Windows time zones and IANA timezones (e.g. "Eastern Standard Time" <-> "America/Toronto"). This was a minor pain point when working with both Windows and Linux.

`DateOnly` and `TimeOnly` structs could be useful as well.